README.adoc, before:

= Fortune Teller

*Fortune Teller* is a very basic application composed of two services:

. link:fortune-teller-fortune-service[Fortune Service] - serves up random Chinese fortune cookie fortunes
. link:fortune-teller-ui[Fortune UI] - presents a UI that consumes the fortune service

It leverages libraries and services from Spring Cloud and Netflix OSS to compose the system.

Fortune Teller is deployable to any Cloud Foundry environment utilizing the service components that have been packaged with the project.
However, it is most easily deployed to Pivotal Cloud Foundry environments that have installed the https://network.pivotal.io/products/p-spring-cloud-services[Spring Cloud Services] package.

== Getting Started

=== Prerequisites

* link:http://info.pivotal.io/p0R00I0eYJ011dAUCN06lR2[Cloud Foundry CLI]
* link:http://info.pivotal.io/i1RI0AUe6gN00C010l12J0R[Git Client]
* link:http://info.pivotal.io/n0I60i3021AN0JU0le10CRR[Java SE Development Kit]

== Building

. Using the Maven Wrapper, build and package the application:
+
----
$ git clone [REPO]
$ cd [REPO]
$ ./mvnw package
----
+
Maven will automatically download all of _Fortune Teller_'s dependencies. This may take a few moments.


== Deploying to Pivotal Cloud Foundry with Spring Cloud Services

. Run `scripts/create_services_pcf.sh` to create the services that you need on Pivotal Cloud Foundry. Run `scripts/create_services_pws.sh` if you are running on PWS. 
+
----
$ ./create_services_pcf.sh
Creating service fortune-db in org microservices / space fortune-teller as admin...
OK
Creating service config-server in org microservices / space fortune-teller as admin...
OK

Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service config-service' to check operation status.
Creating service service-registry in org microservices / space fortune-teller as admin...
OK

Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service service-registry' to check operation status.
Creating service circuit-breaker in org microservices / space fortune-teller as admin...
OK

Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service circuit-breaker' to check operation status.
----

. Wait until the config-server, service-registry and circuit-breaker services have been created. Use cf services and wait until the last operation for these services is create succeeded. This might take a few minutes.  

. Edit the `manifest-pcf.yml` file to specify the Cloud Foundry target the apps are being pushed to, **replacing the URL** in `TRUST_CERTS: https://api.sys.cloud.rick-ross.com` with the API endpoint for your Cloud Foundry deployment.

. Push the microservices:

+
----
$ cf push -f manifest-pcf.yml
----
+
This will push the fortunes service and the ui application and bind all of the services.

The demos for this project are located link:Demos/README.adoc[here]

Commit message:

moved instructions
moved instructions from the config server sub directory under demos

README.adoc, after:

= Fortune Teller

*Fortune Teller* is a very basic application composed of two services:

. link:fortune-teller-fortune-service[Fortune Service] - serves up random Chinese fortune cookie fortunes
. link:fortune-teller-ui[Fortune UI] - presents a UI that consumes the fortune service

It leverages libraries and services from Spring Cloud and Netflix OSS to compose the system.

Fortune Teller is deployable to any Cloud Foundry environment utilizing the service components that have been packaged with the project.
However, it is most easily deployed to Pivotal Cloud Foundry environments that have installed the https://network.pivotal.io/products/p-spring-cloud-services[Spring Cloud Services] package.

== Getting Started

=== Prerequisites

* link:http://info.pivotal.io/p0R00I0eYJ011dAUCN06lR2[Cloud Foundry CLI]
* link:http://info.pivotal.io/i1RI0AUe6gN00C010l12J0R[Git Client]
* link:http://info.pivotal.io/n0I60i3021AN0JU0le10CRR[Java SE Development Kit]

== Building

. Using the Maven Wrapper, build and package the application:
+
----
$ git clone [REPO]
$ cd [REPO]
$ ./mvnw package
----
+
Maven will automatically download all of _Fortune Teller_'s dependencies. This may take a few moments.


== Deploying to Pivotal Cloud Foundry with Spring Cloud Services
For the Spring One Conference:
Run scripts/create-services_S1P.sh to create the services that we need on Pivotal Cloud Foundry. This script is for the 2017 Spring One Platform Conference, and we will be using the github repo: https://github.com/S1PDemo/config-repo. For the conference, you will need to login to the S1PDemo github account, to change the file. More on that later.

Or

If you are running this demo as a Platform Architect, you will want to fork the config repo  

https://github.com/Pivotal-Field-Engineering/fortune-teller-demo-config-repo

using your own github account and then modify the create-services_PCF.sh or create-services_PWS.sh script to point at the correct repo, and correct mysql service.

. Run `scripts/create-services_S1P.sh` (or the appropriate create-services script) to create the services that you need on Pivotal Cloud Foundry:
+
----
$ ./create_services_S1P.sh 
Creating service instance fortunes-db in org S1Pdemo1 / space fortune-teller-demo as s1pcfdemo1@gmail.com...
OK
Creating service instance config-service in org S1Pdemo1 / space fortune-teller-demo as s1pcfdemo1@gmail.com...
OK

Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service config-service' to check operation status.
Creating service instance service-registry in org S1Pdemo1 / space fortune-teller-demo as s1pcfdemo1@gmail.com...
OK

Create in progress. Use 'cf services' or 'cf service service-registry' to check operation status.
Creating service instance circuit-breaker in org S1Pdemo1 / space fortune-teller-demo as s1pcfdemo1@gmail.com...
OK

Create in progress. 

Use 'cf services' or 'cf service circuit-breaker' to check operation status.

----

. Wait until the config-server, service-registry and circuit-breaker services have been created. Use cf services and wait until the last operation for these services is create succeeded. This might take a few minutes.  

. Edit the `manifest-pcf.yml` file to specify the Cloud Foundry target the apps are being pushed to, **replacing the URL** in `TRUST_CERTS: https://api.sys.cloud.rick-ross.com` with the API endpoint for your Cloud Foundry deployment.

. Push the microservices:

+
----
$ cf push -f manifest-pcf.yml
----
+
This will push the fortunes service and the ui application and bind all of the services.

The demos for this project are located link:Demos/README.adoc[here]
